so now let's talk about putting all of
these things together so the first
element we talked about first
fundamental was swing and then we went
through the other two and then we talked
about posture so let's try and put swing
and posture together what do we need to
do to incorporate those two together
okay so just we've talked about our
posture having our centers lined up to
get our common center like nice and
strong which is maintained all the time
now we're trying to swing as well so
we're trying to get maximum movement
across the floor without sacrificing our
posture so you don't want to be getting
maximum Drive and like distorting your
frame and your posture as you're doing
that that was your maximum try that was
my bad as posture though okay so now
when we're swinging we're lowering and
underneath the center of gravity is
where we talked about things lowering so
as we're lowering we're bending through
our hips and knees and our ankles okay
so that takes us down but if I wanted to
go down and forward which joint is like
a big arrow saying go forward out of the
hips the knees or the ankles I would say
the knee yeah exactly it's like a big
old arrow saying go forward now if we
were going to go backwards all three
joints are always going to bend but
which is the joint that allows me to go
backwards imagine first pointing
backwards reverse would be the hip joint
right exactly so if I had a chair that I
was going to sit down onto thank you if
I had a chair that was behind me if I
bend my knees more is taking me away
from the chair if I bend my hips my
knees and my ankles but I bend my hips
more you can see that I'm able to move
back okay exercise yeah so if you wanted
to try this at home you can just put a
chair behind you bend your knees and
feel the knees taking you away from you
and then bend the hips to try and feel
like you're going back it's almost like
sitting into a chair that's just a
little bit too far back exactly but now
we want to do this without breaking our
posture so we want to have our weight on
the correct part of the fluid foot to
get maximum Drive forward and backwards
so when we're moving forwards basically
if I'm just doing a walking step and I
walk forward
then I roll from the back to the front
of my foot and vice versa when I'm
walking backwards I'll roll from the
front to the back of my foot right so we
want to have our weight or our centers
lined up in a position that enhances
this so if I have my weight
oh my centers lined up I can have my
weight on the front or the back of my
foot so you can get up and try this you
can have your weight on the front of the
fruit fall so if you could click your
heels up and down without losing balance
that's your weight on the balls of the
foot feet now from here if you go
backwards and click your heels toes up
and down your weights on your heels make
sure as you do this one that you don't
lose the line of your sentence so you
still have your center of levitation
stretch towards the front of the foot
but you could have your weight on the
back of the foot ready to roll through
the front now if we said knees helped
propel us forward and hips helped propel
us back we could want to have our weight
lined up to enhance that okay so if I
have my weight on the front of the foot
so if I have my weight on the front of
the foot and I bend my knees I'm going
to fall into the step because I have too
much weight on the front of the foot are
you already coming off the foot so
you're going to fall right so from here
if I put my weight to where I could
click my toes up and down and again it's
only in minut difference you can see
that my knees are freed up now to do a
nice bending action to walk forward so
what happens is if you have your weight
on the back of the foot when you're
going to swing forward when you flex
your knees it actually rolls you through
from the back to the front of the foot
right and makes the nice smooth
transition going forward so if I did say
a man's feather step and I move forward
like this my hips get caught behind me
and I'm falling forward into the step
whereas without leaning back still
stretched up if I let my weight land
behind the foot and let the foot stretch
out in front of me I can get a nice
driving action so you stay on the
standing foot longer because it takes
you that much time to roll from the back
all the way through the front of the
foot that's right and so how about going
backwards so if I'm going backwards
let's say if we're starting in the
position that we were going to go
forwards if my weight was on the back of
my foot and I bent my hips right now
again I'm in a falling position so if
I'm falling the first thing that you do
is
you catch your weight with your foot now
the size of step that you can take if
you're falling is very small however if
I shift my weight to the front of the
foot right where I can click my heels up
and down and again remember nice tone
Center and then Bend through the hips to
straight back I can take a much bigger
step backwards so basically you're
rolling from the front of the foot all
the way through the foot off the back of
the foot that's right
so we have our centers lined up
differently for forward and backward
swing so you can try this with a partner
so if I'm going to go forwards and what
I need to do is I need to make sure that
my weights towards the back of my foot
so when I flex my knee I can roll
through the foot right when I'm going to
go backwards I need to make sure it's
towards the front of the foot so I'll go
back on my right foot so I go through
the front of the foot and that way I can
roll through my foot my whole foot as I
move right now what you'll notice is if
you're dancing this with a partner if
you're standing together
if Michael goes to the back of his foot
if I'm connected with him that brings me
to the front of my foot and then if he
goes to the front of his foot I go to
the back of mine so the distance between
our frame stays the same the whole time
this is a minut difference but very
important so it's like an automatic lead
so and just by configuring my body in
the right position over my foot to
either swing forwards or backwards
automatically if the lady's going to
follow me then I'm going to put her in
the correct position on her foot so I
want you all to guess whether I'm going
to go forwards or backwards and
hopefully you get well done another good
job
and now we'll demonstrate with Michael
going backwards you can see he put his
weight to the front of the foot to bring
me forward and the whole time I maintain
my weight a little bit more to the back
of the foot and stay behind the moving
foot so that helps explain a little bit
how the swing is incorporated in with
posture